We covered the Class A addresses.
Next up is Class B. So, Class B addresses were originally assigned to medium to large-sized networks.
With Class B,
it's the first two bits in the address are always going to be set to 1 0.
Class A addresses default to a /8, which is the first octet.
Class B subnet masks always default to a /16, which is the first two octets, and the valid network addresses
range from 128.0.0.0 to 191.255.0.0.
Again, this is a Class B. The subnet mask is the first two octets, so the ranges use the first two octets.
So 128.0 to 191.255,
that allows for 16,384 networks and 65,534
hosts on each of those networks.
Again, you would never have a flat subnet with up to 65,000 hosts in there. If you were given
a Class B network in real world, again, you would subnet it into smaller subnets.
The last class that we'll cover here, the last one that can be used to assign addresses to hosts, is Class C,
and this is used for small networks.
You show that Class A, we've got the first octet, so /8 is used for the subnet mask.
Class B, the second octet,
it's a /16. With Class C, the default subnet mask is a /24, up to the end of the third
octet. And with Class C, it's the first three bits that are important.
They're always set to binary 1 1 0.
The valid network addresses range from 192.0.0.0 to 223.255.255.0.
That allows for a little over 2 million networks and 254 hosts per network.
But something that you're going to know by heart, later on, a Class C network has got 254 hosts up to
that amount. With a Class C, that's small enough, so that could be allocated as is for a real world deployment,
or again, if we wanted to, we could actually subnet that into smaller networks as well. A quick note on private
addresses now,
so I give you all the addresses that were available in our Class A, B, and C networks, and we spoke about
the reserved addresses for our loopbacks, and also the addresses beginning with 0 are reserved
as well.
There's also a range of reserved private addresses in each class.
Those are valid to be assigned to hosts, unlike the other reserved addresses, but the difference is that these
ones are not routable on the public Internet.
So, these were originally designed for hosts in a closed private network that should have no Internet
connectivity.
For example, imagine you've got a high school, and you've got students there that need to work on PCs,
but you don't want them to be able to browse the Internet.
You would put them on private addresses. The benefits you get from that are that they can't get hacked because
they're not connected to the Internet,
and also, it doesn't cost you anything.
You have to pay for public IP addresses. Private IP addresses are, of course, free.
The different ranges that are used for our private addresses, in Class A it's 10.0.0.0
to 10.255.255.255 on the host addresses. The private host addresses in Class B, 172.16.0.0
to 172.31.255.255, and the Class C private range,
192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255.
Again, when you're experienced with working in networking, these are things that you're going to know
off the top of your head.
Private addresses, there's quite a bit more we need to talk about with those. That's going to be covered
in a later lecture in this section.
Okay,
so that was all the info I needed to give you about
our Class A, B, and C classes for now.
We'll talk about the Class D and Class E addresses in the next lecture.